A menu is a list of the food and drinks that guests can order. Menus are sometimes written on large boards for everyone to see, and sometimes they're printed on paper and handed to each guest. A simple menu like a breakfast menu or a children's menu might list just a few dishes and drinks, but lunch and dinner menus usually list many dishes. They can be à la carte dishes ordered individually, or dishes grouped together in a set menu. In European or Western-style menus, dishes are listed in a series of courses. The first course is called starters, appetizers or hors d’oeuvres, and can be a bowl of soup, a small serving of pasta, a salad or one of many savoury starters. Next is the main course or entrée, and this is usually fish, meat or poultry served with vegetables or salad or other side dishes. In many restaurants vegetarian entrées are also available these days.
After the main course, your waiter or waitress might bring a dessert menu if you haven't already ordered desserts from the main menu. Desserts are nearly always sweet, and can be frozen like ice cream or gelato, served at room temperature like fruit salad or cakes, or served hot like pancakes, puddings and fruit pies. Dessert is sometimes followed by a cheese platter with a selection of different cheeses as well as crackers, dried fruits, nuts, etc. Guests are usually offered tea and coffee, and sometimes chocolates are also served after a meal.
Many people like to drink wine when they eat out, and higher-class restaurants often employ a wine steward or sommelier who helps guests pair wines from the wine list with the food they order. Traditionally, red wines are paired with darker meats like steak, roast beef and duck, while white wines and light reds are paired with lighter meats like chicken, fish and seafood. Many wine lists don't show the prices, so make sure you ask how much a glass or bottle costs before ordering. Famous wines can cost thousands of dollars per bottle, and you don't want to get a nasty shock when you see the bill. 