We have a very old family tradition: once a month we pay a visit to the restaurant for a family dinner. It is a great chance to spend the evening out of our usual setting. What is more, it is a good chance to have fun and get away from the routine we get tired of and enjoy some time with the family.

A week before that day we choose the restaurant. It is extremely necessary to reserve a table in advance as the place may be overcrowded at the weekend. We mostly book a table for four: my parents, me and my sister.

The tastes differ in our family. So every time we tend to try a new place or a new type of cuisine. We’ve already visited Indian, Italian, French, Thai, Chinese, Japanese and many other restaurants. The tendency now is that Japanese cuisine is the most popular for the sushi. But my family and I prefer Indian or Indonesian food.

My sister is a vegetarian so we usually look for a place where she can find something for herself. It is good that more and more restaurants suggest food for any customer’s needs nowadays.

When the evening comes we usually take the places, the waiter takes the order and in the beginning we usually have something delicious to drink and spend some time discussing our current issues. We also have a very strong rule: no phones during the dinner.

Luckily, we don’t usually have any problems with our orders. The food usually is tasty and delicious. But it may happen that it is too salty or spicy. In that case we never argue but ask it to be changed. And we never receive a denial. Maybe because we are very polite and smiley.

Several hours later we ask for a bill, pay in cash or with a credit card and have a long walk back home. I really enjoy such evenings for the sense of unity and love. It helps to support good relationship with my parents and allows them to know all about my and my sister’s lives. So just try spending some time together with your family at the restaurant, and you will notice that your relationship has become much better.